- Remarks by [[President Biden]] at a Democratic National Committee Fundraiser | The [[White House]]
	- https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/04/21/remarks-by-president-biden-at-a-democratic-national-committee-fundraiser-3
	- ✏️ Highlights
		- I said I was running for three reasons.
			- One, to restore the soul of the country and to restore a sense of decency and honor to the — to the United States of America in terms of the presidency.
			- and the second thing I said was that I wanted to rebuild the economy — the backbone of the economy, which I believe to be the [[middle class]].
			- And the third thing was — that’s turning — that I was roundly and justifiably criticized for was saying I want to unite the country.
		- I’ve had long discussions and over many, many hours — I mean, literally, over — I think it’s now up to 70-some hours with [[Xi Jinping]].
			- We traveled 17,000 miles.
			- And he doesn’t have a democratic — with a small “d” — bone in his body. He’s a very smart and calculating guy.
			- And he’s just very straightforward with me.
				- He doesn’t think that [[democracies]] can be sustained in the 21st century, in the second quarter of the century, because things are moving so rapidly, so incredibly fast that only — he doesn’t say “[[autocracy]]” — only autocracies are able to handle it.
				- Because democracies require consensus, and it takes too much time, too much effort to get it together.
				- And by that time, the event, the circumstance has gone beyond your ability to fix it.
		- he called me to congratulate me. We ended up spending almost three hours on the telephone.
			- And he — and it just amazed the Chinese experts who were on the phone with me, the things that he said.
			- He remembered everything I had said to him.
				- He said, “I remember you — asking you.” I said, “I know.”
					- He said, “You shouldn’t be criticizing another country in terms of your — our [[human rights]] and our policy towards individuals.”
						- I mean that sincerely. Think about it. An idea.
						- We’re not based on ethnicity, race, religion, geography.  It’s an idea. And what was the idea?
						- “We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all women and men are created equal, endowed by their Creator with certain inalienable rights.” You know it.
		- And so, I said, “For me not to be critical of your abuse of human rights would be like you deciding you didn’t think that China was any longer the center of the earth.
			- You would be abandoning exactly what your country thinks it is and thought it was.” And I said, “So, I’m not going to stop being critical.”
		- The point being that one of the things that the autocrats fear the most — and India has its own problems; all those countries have their own problems — is the notion that somehow we can work together in concert and — contrary to what are essentially dictatorships, which a lot of countries have become — particularly, not only China, but Russia and many other countries — the Philippines.
- Why [[Chinese Culture]] Has Not Conquered Us All
	- Author: [[Tanner Greer]]
	- https://scholars-stage.org/why-chinese-culture-has-not-conquered-us-all
	- ✏️ Highlights
		- “tell China’s story well.”
			- The slogan flows naturally from the operating assumptions of [[Party state]] strategists:
				- in their telling, a central pillar of any nation’s “comprehensive national power” (综合国力) is a force these Chinese have labeled “discourse power” (话语权).
		- [The Party]([[China’s Communist Party]]) is happy to include [[censorship]], [[propaganda]], corruption, and other sorts of “influence” or “interference” activities as part of their campaign for greater discourse power.
			- But these tools are mostly negative.
				- They can restrict the circulation of ideas but have a far more difficult time painting a positive vision of the good.
				- This is a lost opportunity for the party faithful.
		- Part of this is a big picture problem:
			- the leaders of party state know what they hate about the current world order but have difficulty reaching a conclusive consensus on what the exact shape of a replacement world order should be.
		- But there is an even larger problem niggling the councils of Zhongnanhai.
			- Even if Chinese thinkers are able to develop a compelling vision of the future, there is patent worry that China will not be able to sell this vision to the rest of the world.
			- Outside of its own borders, post-Deng China has a poor record selling the intangible.
				- Chinese cultural influence is not commensurate with China’s economic power or geopolitical heft.
		- Wang actually undersells Chinese success somewhat.
			- To [[ByteDance]] and the Three Body Problem we must add the break-out video game of 2020, [[Genshin Impact]].
		- The broader debate over the sterility of Chinese culture is not new. But it’s indirect:
			- Most observers place fault exactly where Dan does:
				- the claustrophobic cultural environment of enforced political orthodoxy.
					- A common ancillary argument is that [[party-state]] calls for innovative cultural production are themselves the problem.
					- Cultural innovation happens at the level of the individual artist, this argument goes.
		- I do not find this logic totally convincing. After all, China’s neighbors have done the exact thing Western critics and artists claim cannot be done.
			- The success of [[K-pop]] hinged on two connecting tissues that bound together the [[South Korea]]n music industry with [[Japan]] and [[the West]].
				- The first I referenced above: much of Korean pop is actually the work of foreign hands.
		- Chinese intellectual life is often more vital and vibrant than what I see in the West.
			- Back in 2017 I did a stint of copy editing work for [[China News Service]].
				- Many of the articles were boiler plate propaganda, but the most interesting covered controversies and happenings in Chinese literature, history, and social life.
			- I was constantly surprised, even amazed, at the vast number of fascinating thinkers never making their way into English language reporting on China.
		- Back up a decade to a looser past:
			- Chinese culture had no more cachet abroad than it does now.
				- The strictness of the censors does not correlate with China’s cultural successes and failures abroad.
					- There are few bridges to link these Chinese sites with their counterparts in the West.
				- The [[transaction cost]]s of jumping the [firewall]([[Great Firewall]]) and moving between platforms put Chinese producers at a disadvantage.
					- The cyber infrastructure of the global commons is simply not as intuitive to Chinese executives and artists as it was to the Koreans who engineered the [[Korean Wave]].
		- This points to the second problem with all the Chinese proposals for the rejuvenation of Chinese culture. #[[传统文化]]
			- Chinese thinkers often assume that “discourse power,” “soft power,” and its like will come from exporting something uniquely Chinese to the rest of the world.
			- Many look to traditional China for that something. I suspect that they would have more success if they focused more on publicizing unique Chinese ‘spins’ on genres already popular in the broader world.