- Why [[American Teens]] Are So Sad - [[The Atlantic]]
	- Author: [[Derek Thompson]]
	- https://www.theatlantic.com/newsletters/archive/2022/04/american-teens-sadness-depression-anxiety/629524/
	- ✏️ Highlights
		- The United States is experiencing an extreme teenage [[mental-health crisis]].
			- From [[2009]] to [[2021]], the share of American [[high-school student]]s who say they feel “persistent feelings of sadness or hopelessness” rose from 26 percent to 44 percent, according to a new CDC study.
			- This is the highest level of teenage sadness ever recorded.
				- So why is this happening?
		- I want to propose several answers to that question, along with one meta-explanation that ties them together.
			- But before I start with that, I want to squash a few tempting fallacies.
				- The first fallacy is that we can chalk this all up to teens behaving badly.
				- The second fallacy is that teens have always been moody, and sadness looks like it is rising only because people are more willing to talk about it.
				- The third fallacy is that today’s mental-health crisis was principally caused by the pandemic and an overreaction to COVID.
		- Here are four forces propelling that increase.
			- 1. Social-media use
				- [[social media]] isn’t like rat poison, which is toxic to almost everyone.
					- It’s more like alcohol: a mildly addictive substance that can enhance social situations but can also lead to dependency and depression among a minority of users.
				- Why would social media affect [[teenage mental health]] in this way?
					- One explanation is that teenagers (and teenage girls in particular) are uniquely sensitive to the judgment of friends, teachers, and the digital crowd.
					- As I’ve written, social media seems to hijack this keen peer sensitivity and drive obsessive thinking about body image and popularity.
					- The problem isn’t just that social media fuels anxiety but also that—as we’ll see—==it makes it harder for today’s young people to cope with the pressures of growing up==.
			- 2. Sociality is down
				- Both Steinberg and Twenge stress that ==the biggest problem with social media might be not social media itself, but rather the activities that it replaces.==
				- Today’s teens spend more than five hours daily on social media, and that habit seems to be displacing quite a lot of beneficial activity.
					- The share of high-school students who got eight or more hours of sleep declined 30 percent from 2007 to 2019. #[[sleep time]]
						- Compared with their counterparts in the 2000s, today’s teens are less likely to go out with their friends, get their driver’s license, or play youth sports. #[[meet with friends]]
				- The pandemic and the closure of schools likely exacerbated teen [[loneliness]] and sadness.
				- More aloneness (including from heavy [[smartphone]] use) and more loneliness (including from school closures) might have combined to push up sadness among teenagers who need sociality to protect them from the pressures of a stressful world.
			- 3. The world is stressful—and there is more news about the world’s stressors
				- Fears about finances, [[climate change]], and viral [pandemics]([[COVID-19 pandemic]]) are smashing into local concerns about social approval and setting oneself up for success.
					- “I think of it as a pile-on effect,” Steinberg said. “We’re coming out of the pandemic, and then suddenly Russia goes to war. #[[Russia’s invasion of Ukraine]]
						- Every day, it feels like there’s something else. It creates a very gloomy narrative about the world.”
				- We cannot rule out the possibility that teens are sad about the world, not only because the world contains sadness, but also because young people have 24/7 access to sites that are constantly telling them they should be depressed about it.
			- 4. Modern parenting strategies
				- In the past 40 years, American parents—especially those with a college degree—have nearly doubled the amount of time they spend coaching, chauffeuring, tutoring, and otherwise helping their teenage children. #鸡娃
					- The economist Valerie Ramey has labeled this the “rug rat race.”
						- High-income parents in particular are spending much more time preparing their kids for a competitive college admissions process.
		- The truth is I’m not satisfied by any of the above explanations, on their own.
			- But I see no reason to keep them alone. They interact, amplify, and compound.
				- And together they paint a powerful picture.
		- Social media places in every teen’s pocket a quantified battle royal for scarce popularity that can displace hours of sleep and makes many teens, especially girls, feel worse about their body and life.
			- Amplify these existing trends with a global pandemic and an unprecedented period of social isolation, and suddenly, the remarkable rise of teenage sadness doesn’t feel all that mysterious, does it?
- How to stay optimistic in these dark times
	- Author: [[Noah Smith]]
	- https://noahpinion.substack.com/p/how-to-stay-optimistic-in-these-dark
	- ✏️ Highlights
		- It’s a trying time to be alive in this world.
			- I don’t fault anyone for being dejected, afraid, or angry.
			- But at the same time, I think it’s important to stay optimistic.
		- Optimism comes in a number of different flavors.
			- One key distinction is how much you focus on your own actions and your own agency — whether you sit there and expect that things will get better, or whether you believe that you both can and must act to make them better.
			- A second distinction is what kinds of things you’re optimistic about.
		- The venture capitalist [[Peter Thiel]] distinguishes between what he calls “definite” and “indefinite” [[optimism]] — whether you think things will get better in general, or whether you have a specific idea.
		- Our problem now is that we have some problems where what makes sense is to just maintain a positive outlook and wait for the problems to resolve themselves, but other problems where a more activist approach is needed.
			- We need to manage the trick of calming society down while also mobilizing it for action against some looming threats.
- 我反对
	- https://wanqianwrites.com/2022/04/25/%e6%88%91%e5%8f%8d%e5%af%b9
	- ✏️ Highlights
		- 我反对
		- 「硬隔离」。
		- 在楼栋门口焊起绿色铁栅栏，
		- 把人锁在里面，
		- 不顾红色火舌夺去人的性命。
		- 我反对
		- 半夜在方舱内把老人、孩子强制转运，
		- 临时通知，
		- 没有理由。
		- 折磨就是这个政策全部的意义。
		- 我反对
		- 把人称为羊，
		- 用稀松平常的语气说「羊应该被牵走」。
		- 但那些人是我们的邻居，
		- 是我们的朋友，
		- 也总有一天是我们自己。
		- 我反对「小阳人」「阴人」「阳人」这些名称，
		- 人就是人，拥有身而为人的权利，
		- 没有不拥有权利的人，
		- 没有第二种人。
		- 我反对
		- 用战争形容我们的生活。
		- 如果非要这么说，那请先告诉我，
		- 战争的对象是谁？
		- 为什么这是一场战争？
		- 谁把我们卷入战争？
		- 人民的行动应是反战的行动。
		- 我反对
		- 我们现在所承受的这一切，
		- 因为我们并不必承受它们。
- How I Keep Creating
	- Author: [[Curtis McHale]]
	- https://curtismchale.ca/2022/04/24/how-i-keep-creating
	- ✏️ Highlights
		- Sit down and write every day and you’ll have more words written.
- The [[win-win]] fallacy
	- Author: [[Seth Godin]]
	- https://seths.blog/2022/04/the-win-win-fallacy
	- ✏️ Highlights
		- There are some problems where a useful solution is a win for everyone.
			- But not many.
			- Certainly not the problems that have been around for a while.
			- If there were a win win solution, someone would have probably found it already.
		- If you can’t find a win-win, it might be time to find a win-lose where the most people with something at stake end up benefitting.
			- Often, that means that entrenched interests and those that have traditionally come first don’t do as well in the short run.
- 最长封锁 160 天，这些城市几乎被遗忘了
	- https://chinadigitaltimes.net/chinese/680289.html
	- ✏️ Highlights
		- 为防控境外输入疫情，
		- 我国的边境小城正陷入一场漫长的封锁。 #边境城市
		- 截至 2022 年 4 月下旬，
		- [[云南]] 的 [[瑞丽]]，断断续续 [[封城]] 160 天；
		- [[黑龙江]] 的 [[绥芬河]]，已经封城近 90 天；
		- [[广西]] 的 [[东兴]]，持续封城 60 天。
- How to Support a Struggling [[Friend]] | [[Psyche Guides]]
	- Author: [[Elise Kalokerinos]]
	- https://psyche.co/guides/how-to-support-a-friend-going-through-a-difficult-time
	- ✏️ Highlights
		- _Receiving_ [[social support]] from friends has benefits:
			- in general, people who are supported tend to be more mentally and physically healthy. This might be because support from our friends and family is a strong buffer against the stress caused by tough times.
			- _Giving_ social support to friends also has benefits:
				- when we support another person, it helps to strengthen our [[relationship]] with that person, and it makes us feel better (with the benefits being even greater when we feel like we’ve done a good job helping).
		- 1. Being supportive isn’t easy. Many people struggle to know the right thing to say or do to help.
		- 2. Providing support is a skill you can learn. There are evidence-based strategies you can use. What’s more, providing the right kind of support is good both for your friends and for you.
		- 3. Resist the urge to downplay your friend’s problems. Instead, aim to be compassionate and responsive to how your friend is feeling.
		- 4. Ask questions and really listen. Most of us aren’t as good at empathy as we think – so find out how your friend feels and show you’re paying attention.
		- 5. Give emotional support first, cognitive support second. Validate your friend’s feelings, and only then help them to see things in a more positive light.
		- 6 Don’t take charge. Avoid being directive about your opinions; instead, encourage your friend to come up with potential solutions so they feel in control of the problem.
		- 7. Avoid venting together. Dwelling on problems with your friend without looking for a solution is known as co-rumination. Use distraction to break out of these negative spirals.
- 在想象一种状态，可能叫「[[互联网]] 史前状态」或者「人类初始状态」。
	- 就是这个人从未被评论区驯化过， #[[avoid comments]]
	- 从未在脑子里冒出一个判断句时同时跟上八个烂从句，
	- 从未用陈词滥调的自我说教封堵一切自由随性的东西，
	- 同时再也不用在这个语境里去理解每一个想发言的和不想发言的人。
	- 一键恢复出厂设置，我都感觉是一个全新物种了。
	- https://m.weibo.cn/status/4747287211016775