- [[Web Excursions in June]]
	- 为什么你应该试试一句话换一行 #Markdown
		- https://sspai.com/post/73957
	- As China shuts out the world, internet access from abroad gets harder too - [[Los Angeles Times]]
	  id:: 62b7a3c9-2e8e-408d-abc6-7e37a66e1fab
		- Author: [[Stephanie Yang]]
		- https://www.latimes.com/world-nation/story/2022-06-23/china-great-firewall-foreign-domestic-virtual-censorship
		- ✏️ Highlights
			- Vincent Brussee’s main focus is information that will help him understand China’s burgeoning [[social credit system]].
				- But in the last few years, he’s noticed that his usual sources have become more unreliable and access tougher to gain.
			- One of the [most sweeping](((62b65813-bed6-48b9-a27f-5e6c97f3f81e))) [[surveillance state]]s in the world, China has all but closed its borders since the start of the pandemic, accelerating a political turn inward as [[nationalism]] is on the rise and foreign ties are treated with suspicion.
			- At the same time, academics and researchers have complained that the digital window into China seems to be constricting too.
				- That compounds a growing concern for China experts locked out of the country amid deteriorating relations with the West.
			- Comprehensive analysis on whom China’s [[Great Firewall]] keeps out is scarce; much of the focus on the country’s internet freedom remains on domestic censorship.
				- But many researchers who have experienced such challenges suspect that their limited access is part of China’s attempt to ward off what it sees as international meddling, and present its own tightly controlled narrative to the outside world.
			- In order to squeeze through bottlenecks, Brussee uses a virtual private network, or [[VPN]]
				- But VPNs aren’t foolproof. Chinese authorities have cracked down, making connections in and out of China slow and erratic.
			- One alternative source of information that Impiombato has relied on is [[WeChat]], the ubiquitous social messaging app owned by Chinese gaming giant [[Tencent]].
				- Many party agencies have their own pages on WeChat where they post notices, but it requires a lot of mobile scrolling to find the relevant material, she said.
			- Signing up for an account, however, has become more challenging for foreigners in recent years as Chinese platforms like WeChat, [[Sina Weibo]] and others have implemented additional screening, such as a [[Chinese phone number]] and official identification.
				- In some cases, those registration requirements can be more prohibitive than geoblocking, ruling out resources from online discussions to official documents to industry databases.
			- Blocking foreign internet users, particularly from sensitive information, is not unique to China.
				- But China’s control of information appears more expansive.
			- “Sometimes you see the perfect piece of information that you need and then suddenly it’s gone, she said. “You almost have to start from scratch every single time.”