- [[Daily Reading in June]]
	- Speaking Loud for [[Xi Jinping]] – [[China Media Project]] 新农村 [[大喇叭]]
		- Author: [[Stella Chen]]
		- https://chinamediaproject.org/2022/05/18/speaking-loud-for-xi-jinping%ef%bf%bc/
		- [Local library](zotero://select/library/items/FJUC6CNL)
		- ✏️ Highlights
			- The shrill call of the loudspeaker, once a staple of political and economic life in pre-reform China, is a sound now returning to the countryside as ideology takes center stage in the New Era.
			- Imagine a stretch of brick village houses in the Chinese countryside, their outer walls painted with bright red propaganda posters.
				- It’s early morning and a loudspeaker blares out [[local government]] announcements, along with the latest slogans from the top leader in Beijing.
			- This may sound like a scene from the height of the [[Cultural Revolution]] in the 1970s. But that’s the catch.
				- This is the Chinese village in the second decade of the 21st century, where an old communication technology is making a comeback alongside the latest digital tools.
			- The shrill call of the loudspeaker, once a staple of political and economic life in pre-reform China, is a sound now returning to the countryside.
			- Under Xi’s leadership, the loudspeaker has regained its old function, strengthening propaganda and ideology at [[grass-root]]s units – meaning at the lowest levels of the Party-state bureaucracy.
			- And then there was that vexing 21st century question of legality.
				- “But as legal citizens each of us should have the right to freely allocate our personal time, including sleep time, and we should have the right to choose what we listen to!”
	- [[丁仲礼]] 质问 [[柴静]]：[[中国人]] 是不是人？
		- 所以中国人就不该自由获取信息吗，就不该享有 [[言论自由]] 吗？
		- {{video https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HnA8fq5ggUg}}
	- Why Isn’t New Technology Making Us More Productive? - The [[New York Times]]
		- Author: [[Timo Lenzen]]
		- https://www.nytimes.com/2022/05/24/business/technology-productivity-economy.html
		- ✏️ Highlights
			- Innovations like [[cloud computing]] and [[artificial intelligence]] are hailed as engines of a coming productivity revival. But a broad payoff across the economy has been elusive.
			- The current productivity puzzle is the subject of spirited debate among economists.
				- Robert J. Gordon, an economist at [[Northwestern University]], is the leading skeptic.
					- Today’s [[artificial intelligence]], he says, is mainly a technology of pattern recognition, poring through vast troves of words, images and numbers.
					- Its feats, according to Mr. Gordon, are “impressive but not transformational” in the way that electricity and the internal combustion engine were.
			- “Real change is happening — a tidal wave of transformation is underway,” Mr. Brynjolfsson said. “We’re seeing more and more facts on the ground.”
			- It takes time for new technologies to spread and for people to figure how to best use them.
				- For example, the electric motor, which was introduced in the 1880s, did not generate discernible productivity gains until the 1920s, when the mass-production assembly line reorganized work around the technology.
	- 免受生活焦虑才有创造的自由
		- {{tweet https://twitter.com/hemashushu/status/1534372150819180544}}